For example, Wallapop was born.
We are starting to think about
what can work in Spain.
At that time, five or six years ago,
we wanted to do something in the
second hand world and that
was mobile.
Now it is obvious, but then it
wasn't, we are the first to
bet on a mobile solution.
And from that we defined Wallapop's
business model, seeing
other things that had worked
around the world.
The truth is that Wallapop interests
us a lot because it is a
company that I think we are
all users of.
I sold it, I bought it.
I think the value to the customer
is undeniable, undoubted, spectacular.
And I know that it is a company that has
been talked about, that there has
been noise in relation to going
to find the business model, they
will end up having a model that
is sustainable.
This noise has been heard from many companies.
Spotify has been mentioned, and many
companies have been mentioned.
And I, it's a personal issue of mine,
I think that when a company is able
to bring so much value, it will cost
you more, it will have to raise more
rounds.
But it is very difficult that you
don't end up building a business
model that is profitable.
There may be some evidence
that shows that what I am
saying is not always true.
But I tend to think that it is so,
because Wallapop is that you use it
once and you realize the
difference really of what it brings
in relation to what there was
or what it has any other similar
platform.
So if you could tell us how you
overcame the Wallapop challenge,
because it's a model where
you had to grow only for
a while, you had to finance
absolutely all the growth without
getting anything because
you weren't monetizing
users.
Yes, we at Antaim have launched
this process, five years ago
that we launched Antaim, we have
launched 15 companies.
Our factory works to launch
three companies with these entrepreneurs
a year, basically.
Three.
And above all we have made companies
in the mobile world, where we have
a lot of experience, such as Wallapop,
CornerJob, Globo, which comes from
a merger with JazzBell.
I told you that I was with Oscar
yesterday.
As a Delivery.
Most of all we have done things
in the field of classified,
the collaborative economy,
that is, second hand in Wallapop,
employment in CornerJob, we have
had the opportunity to also
participate in Globo, where we
do more topics of Delivery in general,
of Convenience, the whole
line of supermarket fresh
food we do in Delivery, we
have a marketplace of cars
like Carnovo, then in
general we have a lot of
experience in classified
and we are very demetric people.
If there was something that students
had to stay, I think it is the concept
that there are many where the
relevant thing in the early stages is
not so much the generation of
revenue, but the metrics of use,
the power to see how much it costs
you to acquire a customer, what
organic percentage you have, and
what loyalty that people have, when
I refer to organic, how many
customers come to you by a mouth-
ear and without cost at the level
of acquisition, customers users,
and how you retain, and
these are the first things we
see in each of the companies
to try to predict the
success of how they progress.
And in particular in the world of
the classified, where we have these
three experiences like Wallapop, CornerJob
or Carnovo itself, there is a theory,
I say it for entrepreneurs, behind
there is a rational of this process
in the world of the classified,
and it is that the concept that
the winner takes all, and that therefore
there is a single winner, and that
you need to be at least two or
three or four years generating
a recurring user base and liquidity,
both in the classified the
key is both the supply
and demand compensated, and when
you already have that, and you are
the undisputed leader in those
concepts, in those metrics
then, when you enter three
or four years later in the
phase of monetization without
rival, and it is when you
can make those services
go to monetize, but first you
have to have created all
that base.
And when you're there, then
you have a tremendous life generation
ability.
An unavoidable barrier to entry.
Insaferable and a brutal generation
of life, because it is an
absolutely digital company, in which
the world's top ranked who have
achieved this position work with
percentages of living on income
of 70 percent or 80 percent.
I love what you said, because
in one of our classes we talked
exactly about this, how the network
effect leads to the winner takes
all, that we have used it as such,
and it is what happens because
the companies that grow earlier,
that virtuous circle of more
users, more value, more value,
makes them catch momentum
and the rest is left out.
And when you already have that,
and users can't afford you, so
much, let's say, and at least
go if you want classified terminology,
both supply and demand, listers,
both those who publish things
as those who buy them, then
it's time to monetize and
charge for that service when
there is no alternative,
let's say, in the market.
That's a trajectory that the
world's top ranking have launched
and it has worked.
And not only in the classified,
in general all social networks, which
are also based on the business,
it is the same, it analyzes a
little what Facebook did the years
it took to monetize, but then
when it has been put to
monetize, since it is a growth machine.
What does LinkedIn do as a social work?
The same.
Whenever there is a network...
Twitter is the same.
It is true that then each of those
projects, until you are monetizing
it, you don't know what the real
potential of income generation is
and, for example, because we see
this very well in listed
companies like Facebook, Twitter
or LinkedIn, where the evolution
of Facebook quote indicates
that Facebook has been able
to break the forecasts
of income generation.
LinkedIn is there
too.
Facebook is easy to understand.
How much money?
You will not tell me.
We spend a bit of money on
Facebook every month.
I don't even want to tell
you the money.
How can a Facebook account not be
worth a dollar if we don't all
spend a dollar on advertising?
of course.
Then then, obviously, time
tells you if that income potential
can go how far.
And that's then what marks the ratings
of companies like Facebook or Twitter,
where Facebook has, for example,
made a bigger progress that
has been made on Twitter, by
the potential power that it has
then been able to launch the
company.
I would like to give you a thought
about what Michael Williams said.
As you can see, we were asking for
Wallapop.
Because Wallapop is a company
that has grown from its inception
to a lot of users, it provides
a huge value, but for a long
time it has been questioned whether
it would become a profitable
business model.
And why?
Why is this given?
Well, because the issue is that on
platforms the fact of creating network
effect, the fact of creating value
to users does not imply that
you will always find a profitable
business model.
This is different than in a linear model.
In a linear, traditional model, you
do what you do is cobras based
on the value you create.
You sell a customer, you bring value
and you pay for it.
On a platform it is very different, because
we have to put ourselves on a lot
of things.
Who creates value or who creates
value for?
Sometimes there are different users.
Who is creating value for each
other?
To whom can you charge?
Or when?
When is a very important topic.
Miguel told us that they for a
long time in the case of Wallapop
and in some other case initially
did not monetize, did not charge
anyone until they reached
the network effect or the critical
mass.
This is a very important topic.
Why is it?
Because you have in mind that the
goal is to generate a greater critical
mass, is to generate more value
to users, etc.
And charging from the beginning
or charging in general can be, it
doesn't have to be, but it can be
counterproductive.
Why is it?
Because you are creating entrance barriers.
If you charge users, there
may be fewer users who
sign up, so you're not
doping that circle.
And we must find balance.
In the case of Michael, what did he recommend?
Well, because when customers can no
longer live without you, start charging them.
Another issue to consider is the
value of interactions.
Sometimes when you collect, you
get interactions to be more valuable.
I will give you an example.
Let us look at the case of the meeting.
Meetup is a platform, now mainly
used in the application,
born in 2003, in desktop
format.
It's an app that allows you
to upload a Meetup, which
is an event.
You are proposing an event.
You can do sports in the park.
People are there and you are organizing
the event.
And it had much growth from the
beginning, but its monetization
strategy failed.
They started trying to generate
leads for local.
If I, for example, organized an
event to talk and learn English,
the bar was the one who paid
for that lead.
This did not work.
They tried to monetize that entire
audience through advertising, but
there wasn't enough traffic at
that time, etc., and there weren't
enough advertisers.
They also tried to offer a premium
service, Meetup Plus, which also
didn't work.
So they had a lot of attraction,
but they couldn't make
money.
This is true of many platforms.
And they also had another problem, and
it is that as they didn't charge,
a lot of people organized the events,
proposed Meetups, but it didn't
matter, did it without any rigor, then
that event was failed, etc., and
in the end the interactions were
of very little quality.
And they had a statistic that
only 2% of those Meetups were
finally successful, etc.
Then they had to make a risky
decision, and what they started
to do was pay off.
How to cover?
So pay people who decide
to go up a meeting.
With this they get, that those
who go up a Meetup take it much
more seriously, then they
got the percentage of interactions
good, that is, the quality
increased a lot.
This has had a very negative
impact on the...
In terms of activity,
the amount of activity.
It actually fell, it disappeared 95%.
It has decreased a lot.
But they found themselves in balance,
because they managed to continue
generating Network Effects, although
it was with fewer users, they
boosted the quality
of the interactions.
And, in addition, they obviously gave
a response to the challenge of
how to monetize all that enormous value generated.